# Capture-Linux-Traceroute-from-Course-Virtual-Machine
Virtual Lab Exercise – Capture Linux Traceroute from Course Virtual Machine
Virtual Lab Exercise – Capture Linux Traceroute from Course Virtual Machine
Search the Internet using your browser of choice and locate a website that is in a foreign country. You will need to find a website that uses an approved Country code as defined by ISO 3166 (https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html). For instance, the website https://realestate.co.jp/en/ is a Japanese website with the country code .jp. Once you have found the website of your choice that includes a foreign country code in the URL, follow the instructions below. 
1.	Review Labs 1 and 2 in the Introduction section of this course Lab Manual. Launch your course Virtual Machine and login with the bdcuser account.
Capture the output from the traceroute command using your foreign website as the destination. 
 







2.	When you execute your traceroute command, save your results in a file called foreign-website.txt
Answer: saving the results of traceroute command in ‘foreign-website.txt’

 

3.	Execute the cat command on your foreign-website.txt file to observe the output generated by the traceroute command.
 

4.	Open your foreign-website.txt file from your local laptop or PC shared directory. NOTE: Instructions on how to have your local shared directory setup can be found within your course lab manual. Observe the output from your local laptop or PC. 


C:/User/public/vmshare/foreign-website.txt - shows the same output for traceroute, saved on the local device
 








Answer the following questions: (Total = 3 Points)
1.	What was the difference in experience with this virtual lab exercise versus the Hands-on traceroute exercise?  (1 Point)
\ 

In the hands-on traceroute exercise, the traceroute of google.com shows that the packets are routed through various parts of the United States to google.com with the (IP 74.125.196.106). The IP addresses of the hopping nodes are of the web servers deployed by Google within the United States.

 




Virtual Lab Exercise:
In the virtual lab exercise, the packets are being routed through United States (63.61.166.19), Through several server of spectrum and bhn.net.

What countries, starting from your source country (ie. Unites States), did your packets hop through along the route to your destination web site?  (1 Point)



I believe the request packet route for mohfw.gov.in starts from United States and then passes through India. The IP addresses of the hopping nodes are of the web servers within the United States.


Why do you think your packets would be routed through those specific countries in order to get to the destination? For instance, did you observe the hops moving the packets through diplomatic channels? Or, is there some other interesting pattern you see as the packets hop through the specific countries? (1 Point) 

In our website example we can see that packet are hoping through different IP address of USA to the destination country IP address that is India.  The pattern for packet communication is prioritized based on traffic and number of hops.

 
OSI MODEL: PHYSICAL LAYER
Virtual Lab Exercise 1 – Code ASCII to Binary using Course Virtual Machine
Review Exercise 1 in Lab 1 for the Physical Layer in the course Lab Manual. Retrieve the binary octets for your last name using the xxd command on your course virtual machine. Each letter of your last name should include an 8-digit binary translation. What is the binary translation of your last name?  Why is it important to understand the translation of ASCII characters to Binary?  (1 Point)
 


Alphabet	S	I	N	G	H
ASCIICODE	01110011	01101001	01101110	01100111	01101000










Virtual Lab Exercise 2 – Network Interface Statistics
Review Exercise 1 in Lab 2 for the Physical Layer in the course Lab Manual. Collect 10 seconds of data using the ifstat command on our course virtual machine. What is the name of your interface? What is the fastest inteface in speed in KB/s? What is the fastest interface out speed in KB/s? (1 Point)

Interface name: enp0s3
Fastest in interface: 0.00 KB/s
Fastest out interface: 0.00 KB/s

  
OSI MODEL: DATA-LINK LAYER
Virtual Lab Exercise – Compute a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) on a file
Review Exercise 1 in Lab 1 for the Data Link Layer in the course Lab Manual. Complete the following steps: 
1.	Create a text file called “mymessage.txt”.
  
2.	Open the file using nano and edit the file with the following text, “Learning how to compute a Cyclic Redundancy Check on a file”
 
3.	Now, exit nano and save the file.
 
4.	Use the cksum command to compute a Cyclic Redundancy Check on the mymessage.txt file
 
What output did you get from this command? Explain each part of the output. 

 After creating, editing and saving the file mymessage.txt, I run the command cksum and its output is as follows:
The number 576426380 displays the CRC output
The number 58 indicates bytes of data in the file mymessage.txt
And then we see the name of the file mymessage.txt


Next, complete the following steps:
1.	Re-open the mymessage.txt file in nano and edit the file with by typing your First and Last name on the next row. 
 
2.	Exit nano and save the file.

 
3.	Use the cksum command to compute a Cyclic Redundancy Check on the mymessage.txt file
 

What output did you get from this command? What was the difference in the output of this command versus the first time you executed the command? Why do you think it is important for a network professional to know how to conduct a Cyclic Redundancy Check on a file? (1 Point)
On running cksum on newly edited mymessage.txt shows following output.
977311978 displays CRC output
72 is the number of bytes in mymessage.txt
 We can see the change in CRC code and number of bytes as we change the content of the message.
It is important  for a network  professional to know how to conduct a Cyclic Redundancy check on a file  because  A cyclic redundancy check (CRC) is an error-detecting code commonly used in digital networks and storage devices to detect accidental changes to raw data. Blocks of data entering these systems get a short check value attached, based on the remainder of a polynomial division of their contents. On retrieval, the calculation is repeated and, in the event the check values do not match, corrective action can be taken against data corruption.

 
OSI MODEL: NETWORK LAYER
Virtual Lab Exercise – Convert bases to other bases
Review Exercise 1 in Lab 1 for Network Layer in the course Lab Manual. Complete all of the following using the bc language: (1 Point)
1.	Convert your age to binary
 

2.	Now, take your converted binary age and covert it back into an integer
 

3.	Get the local IP address of your course virtual machine using the ip address command.  Now, convert it to binary. For instance, if your IP address is 8.8.8.8 then the binary translation would be 00001000000010000000100000001000. Recall that IP addresses are 32-bit (8 bits x 4 sets) binary addresses. So, 8.8.8.8 in 32-bit binary would include 4 sets of 00001000. 
 
IP Address of my virtual machine: 192.168.0.11
 
Binary format is: 1011011101000100000001001011 
OSI MODEL: TRANSPORT LAYER
Virtual Lab Exercise – Demonstrate the use of a socket to transfer data
Review Labs 1 and 2 for Transport Layer in the course Lab Manual. Complete all of the following using the netcat utility:
1.	Start a netcat session on your course virtual machine by socketing the ip address to port 12356. Make sure that you execute the nc command so that it saves the data in a text file called “transport-layer-lab.txt”
2.	Now, open a Telnet session on your local Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X host. 
3.	Telnet into your course virtual machine netcat session. 
4.	Type the following in your Telnet session, “Applications can use network connections to send data over the network using a socket.”
Answer the following questions: Explain how data is being transferred to the text file on the course virtual machine using the Telnet connection. What business applications can be applied to use this type of data transfer? (1 Point)

 




Telnet is a network protocol used to virtually access a computer and to provide a two-way, collaborative and text-based communication channel between two machines.
It follows a user command Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) networking protocol for creating remote sessions. On the web, Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and File Transfer Protocol (FTP) simply enable users to request specific files from remote computers, while, through Telnet, users can log on as a regular user with the privileges they are granted to the specific applications and data on that computer.
Business uses of Telnet
•	Telnet can be used for a variety of activities on a server, including editing files, running various programs and checking email.
•	Telnet can be used to test or troubleshoot remote web or mail servers, as well as for remote access to MUDs (multi-user dungeon games) and trusted internal networks.
•	We can retrieve old data from remote machine using telnet and it can be used for various purpose by public. Like we can gather old weather data.
 
OSI MODEL: APPLICATION LAYER
Virtual Lab Exercise – Explore a web application server
Review Labs 1 and 2 for Application Layer in the course Lab Manual. Complete the following:
1.	Build a web page with the filename “application-layer.html” within your course virtual machine /var/www/html directory using nano. 

 

2.	The content of your web page should describe what you know about the Application Layer of the OSI model. 

 

3.	Start the Apache web server on your course virtual machine.

 

4.	View your web page using a browser on your local Laptop/PC 


 

Answer the following question: Explain in detail what makes it possible for your web page to be viewed from a browser on your local laptop/PC?  (1 Point)
We can view our web page from a browser because of apache server. As it accesses the virtual machine IP from a browser, we can access our virtual machine IP directories. Which opens the index.html page from the directory /var/www/html. We have created HTML called application-layer.html.
To edit and update the HTML file we created, we have given permissions using super user using ‘chmod’ command. To start the apache server, we have used the command ‘sudo systemctl start apache2’.  We can stop apache server using sudo systemctl stop apache2’ command.
When we type the URL ‘192.168.0.11/application-layer.html’, the .html file is rendered through HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and we see the content of our web page.

